README.md, before:

# [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) components for [`kiara`](https://dharpa.org/kiara.documentation)

This repository contains components to display data from `kiara`, and to help interacting with `kiara`. They are written in Svelte, [learn more about Svelte in their docs](https://svelte.dev/docs).

## Developing

Clone this repository using git. Install operating system dependenices [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) and npm, then:

```bash
npm install  # install project dependencies, first time only
npm run dev
```

Alternatively, if you have the [`just`](https://github.com/casey/just) task runner installed, run `just setup`.

Everything inside `src/lib` is part of the component library, everything inside `src/routes` is the showcase or preview app.

Optionally (but please do if you can) there's a [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) hook to check formatting before each commit. You'll need [pre-commit installed globally](https://pre-commit.com/#installation) on your machine, then run `pre-commit install` to enable the hook.

## Testing

The project is set up to enable "unit" testing via [vitest](https://vitest.dev/), and browser/UI testing via [playwright](https://playwright.dev/). Run the tests with:

```bash
npm run test  # all the tests
npm run test:integration  # just the UI tests
npm run test:unit  # just the unit tests
```

There's also various linters, formatters and typescript typechecking configured. Run these:

```bash
npm run format  # fix formatting using prettier
npm run lint  # check for lint errors using eslint
npm run check  # svelte and typescript checks
```

All of these things will be run in [GitHub actions](https://github.com/DHARPA-Project/kiara-svelte-components/actions) when code is pushed.

## Building

To build the library:

```bash
npm run package
```

To create a production version of the showcase app:

```bash
npm run build
```

Preview the production build with `npm run preview`. The showcase app can be deployed anywhere you can host a static site, using [SvelteKit's adaper-static](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-static). Deployment is not yet implemented.

## Publishing

Publishing the package to a package registry is not yet implemented.

To use the package in another JavaScript project with Svelte support:

- clone this repository to your machine,
- run `npm build` in this repository to build the package,
- then in your other project, run `npm install ../path/to/this-repo` to install this package as a [local path dependency](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v6/configuring-npm/package-json#local-paths).

Note that when you want to update this package in your new project, you may need to delete your `node_modules` folder and run `npm install` again. This is to do with the build system (vite) interacting with local packages without version numbers. There may be a better solution, but this approach works sufficiently for now until publishing is implemented.

Commit message:

Add components required for docs site, set up NPM publishing (#8)
* Update vitest version, add coverage

* Update vitest version, add coverage reporting

* Add component to render item documentation

* Add tailwindcss

* Add storybook to help with component development

* Add more components

* Migrage to sveltekit 2 (#6)
result of npx svelte-migrate sveltekit-2 and forcing npm to install with mismatched peer dependencies

* Add remaining docs components

* Prepare for publishing package

* Update vitest version, add coverage

* Add component to render item documentation

* Add more components

* Remove accidental merge mess

* Revert sveltekit upgrade so dependencies resolve

* Add publishing instructions

* Use legacy peer deps in github actions too

README.md, after:

# [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) components for [`kiara`](https://dharpa.org/kiara.documentation)

This repository contains components to display data from `kiara`, and to help interacting with `kiara`. They are written in Svelte, [learn more about Svelte in their docs](https://svelte.dev/docs).

## Developing

Clone this repository using git. Install operating system dependenices [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) and npm, then:

```bash
npm install  # install project dependencies, first time only
npm run dev
```

Alternatively, if you have the [`just`](https://github.com/casey/just) task runner installed, run `just setup`.

Everything inside `src/lib` is part of the component library, everything inside `src/routes` is the showcase or preview app.

Optionally (but please do if you can) there's a [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) hook to check formatting before each commit. You'll need [pre-commit installed globally](https://pre-commit.com/#installation) on your machine, then run `pre-commit install` to enable the hook.

## Testing

The project is set up to enable "unit" testing via [vitest](https://vitest.dev/), and browser/UI testing via [playwright](https://playwright.dev/). Run the tests with:

```bash
npm run test  # all the tests
npm run test:integration  # just the UI tests
npm run test:unit  # just the unit tests
```

There's also various linters, formatters and typescript typechecking configured. Run these:

```bash
npm run format  # fix formatting using prettier
npm run lint  # check for lint errors using eslint
npm run check  # svelte and typescript checks
```

All of these things will be run in [GitHub actions](https://github.com/DHARPA-Project/kiara-svelte-components/actions) when code is pushed.

## Building

To build the library:

```bash
npm run package
```

To create a production version of the showcase app:

```bash
npm run build
```

Preview the production build with `npm run preview`. The showcase app can be deployed anywhere you can host a static site, using [SvelteKit's adaper-static](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-static). Deployment is not yet implemented.

## Publishing

The package is published to `npm`, in the `dharpa` org account. Install it with `npm i @dharpa/kiara-svelte-components`. To publish a new version, create a release on GitHub and write some release notes. Make sure the version number in `package.json` is different to the exising published version (the GitHub Action will fail if you forgot to do this).

To use the package in another JavaScript project with Svelte support:

- clone this repository to your machine,
- run `npm build` in this repository to build the package,
- then in your other project, run `npm install ../path/to/this-repo` to install this package as a [local path dependency](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v6/configuring-npm/package-json#local-paths).

Note that when you want to update this package in your new project, you may need to delete your `node_modules` folder and run `npm install` again. This is to do with the build system (vite) interacting with local packages without version numbers. There may be a better solution, but this approach works sufficiently for now until publishing is implemented.
